does that mean we're actually live it's likely okay would you like to take it away for us no dude you go ahead and intro all right welcome
everyone it is fantastic to be live once again with my good buddy with my good buddy colton we're to be talking about Stellar community funding we've talked about this in the past but it was kind of looking forward to a future date when it would actually all go live and lo and behold that day all go live and lo and behold that day has finally arrived and so scf 2.0 after many months of planning and building the ecosystem team is finally ready to release scf 2.0 and that's what we're going to be talking about today this is engineering talk so we will get into the weeds a little bit on some of into the weeds a little bit on some of the technical decisions and implementations that we have in this new version of the Stellar community fund but it's also going to be a bit longer than normal engineering talks so normally in journey talks for like 15 20 minutes this will probably go a little bit longer than that to make sure we do justice to all the updates and have all
the information available to those who are interested in this update to the Stellar community fund so i've got my fancy slide deck open here and we're just gonna start walking straight through this i think it's worth straight through this I think it's worth taking a little bit of a look back as well as the look ahead to kind of see where we've come from and to understand a little bit better why as well as where we're going so to kind of inform our discussion here let's look at our mandate so the Stellar has a mandate and the sdf is aiming to follow that this is something we make public and if you just type in google Stellar mandate you can find this particular quote somewhere buried in there with all the other missions and visions and mandates that we follow at the sdf when building Stellar the Stellar community fund so one of our allocations of lumens is dedicated towards the Stellar community fund this community funding initiative and it gives the broader Stellar community the opportunity to vote on which projects deserve excellent
grants this is a very unique fund in that it is the only one that fund in that it is the only one that really gives the greater community a direct opportunity to impact the allocation of xlm grants the sdf has a pool of lumens that it has mandated to give out in certain scenarios and to certain entities to accomplish specific goals and tasks and one of those is this pool of lumens and one of those is this pool of lumens 12 million lumens a year that we give out via the community so the community can take part in allocating those and that's kind of what we're doing with this big update is to get closer and continue to iterate on what we've done in the past to align with this goal this mandate as well as getting closer so we've been close to it but as the ecosystem matures we need to as the ecosystem matures we need to continuously update and make sure that we're aligned with our mandate our with our mandate so a little bit of history the Stellar community fund i would
Stellar community fund I would lump it together with the Stellar build challenge so way back in june 2016 the sdf released a project called the Stellar build challenge and the first place winner of that they had a different categories and different you know first place second first second and third place and first place was going to win 55 million limbs the price of lumens back at that time was actually less than a penny so we've come a long way since june 2016 entries in that very first Stellar bill challenge included galactic talk and lobster amongst others so two projects that we at least i know i two projects that we at least I know i use just about every single day and then we move all the way through september 2018 to the last spc so the Stellar build challenge was shut down at the number seven and then shortly after that zach who hopefully a lot of you in this community know the hero really of the sbc kind of took over ownership of that and then
transitioned or as the spc went out he brought back in as the spc went out he brought back in what we call the Stellar community fund which was really starting to align more closely with the community vision of the mandate to have the community giving the mandate to have the community giving away these lumens are allocating where those 12 million lumens should go and so that was carried out by zach he built it designed it we've been running that for a little over a year now five different rounds and now we find ourselves here august 2020 with the scf 2.0 and these different sbcs and scf like they were all good and they all worked well in their time there may have been their in their time there may have been things that would could have been improved or changed but we did that right so as things can be better we make efforts as things can be better we make efforts to improve them and that's really what the scf 2.0 is trying to do and it's making maybe a little bit bigger stab an improvement something maybe akin to what zack did when he
initially created or invented the scf the original scf we're kind of taking a big step at that so rather than taking a big step at that so rather than just adjusting some rules we're actually restructuring it in a pretty significant way taking the best of both the spc and the scf into a into of both the spc and the scf into a new fund which we hope will provide a fantastic funding mechanism for a long time yet before you keep going i do think it's before you keep going I do think it's worth highlighting the original the very first round of scf do you remember how voting took place i do yes the very took place I do yes the very original round of sef we did a vote in a reddit thread where people just like typed in their preferences or their votes and we their preferences or their votes and we had to like hand count them zack hand counted them and i hand zack hand counted them and I hand counted them and then a community member came up with a script to help count them came up with a script to help count them so we were like manually counting comments in a reddit thread so even scf 1.0 has come a long thread so even scf 1.0 has come a long way since the very first iteration yeah that's exactly right we're always
trying to iterate and a lot of it again trying to iterate and a lot of it again like it's not that something was bad and we're trying to make it good it's that as the ecosystem matures we have more members more participants and interest grows necessarily the fund itself needs to change to better suit and host the kind of growth that we're seeing a little bit of a fun fact the spc and a little bit of a fun fact the spc and scf is actually where i came from scf is actually where I came from my intro to Stellar came from the sbc with entries like popcorn color glyph and Stellar ql and then in the scf i had Stellar and then in the scf I had Stellar auth and I think so one of the big focuses for me is i've thought about the redesign of an scf and like where can we redesign of an scf and like where can we actually make important and meaningful changes is to like the funding obviously a big focus of that is the funding right the actual money that's handed out but Stellar community funding is as much about people and relationships as it is about giving money away if you
talk to winners or participants that really took the scf or sbcs seriously a large majority will say that the relationships and feedback that they received were actually more valuable than the money that they received the money is obviously helpful and that's why you're here but a huge part of participating in this is also the relationships and the actual community aspect so sure it's funding yes it's Stellar but the community aspect is more than just the world can vote it's also the world can participate anybody who's interested in still anybody wants to talk about fintech and finance and moving money around and transferring value anybody that that's interesting to they can participate and talk and give feedback and find projects that are interesting to them and find their place to communicate whether that's competing actually submitting entries writing documents you know submitting with events or documentation or actual
projects or just combing through entries and seeing which ones you feel like are valuable and interesting and something that should actually receive funding it's a community fund and being it's a community fund and being able to focus a bit more on that aspect is something that was really important to me in the redesign of the sef is yes the funds are great of the sef is yes the funds are great and we need to make sure we do the best and we need to make sure we do the best job possible of allocating those appropriately but a community is a huge part of this but a community is a huge part of this so making sure the people are still at the center so if i were to summarize kind of the so if I were to summarize kind of the driving principle behind the redesign for me it's the right resources in the right hands at the right time resources being funds as well as feedback right hands being making sure that we're getting these to actual projects making sure the filtering process by which entries come in and then get funding that flow makes sense that nobody's being overworked in the review process that there's this little angst and struggle
i mean it is a competition so you're I mean it is a competition so you're going to have some of that but combing down on the unnecessary pieces of that and then at the right time so making sure that our funds reflect the amount of money for the time that the project has spent on it and the amount of effort that's gone in so this to me is really kind of the so this to me is really kind of the driving force behind the theme of the redesign and so with that those who aren't familiar with the scf currently it's a single fund that happens four times a year where three million lumens are given out split between eight different projects in this new scf 2.0 there are two funds in this new scf 2.0 there are two funds there's a lab fund and a seed fund the there's a lab fund and a seed fund the lab fund being the smaller experimental kind of open source focused documentation events the idea of like seo market presence getting the word out there as well as real the word out there as well as real world's real world stress tests so building things that maybe aren't necessarily perfect for the Stellar use
case as it stands but might help stress test the network that would be our lab fund and that is 500 000 lumens given out four times per year split between about 12 different projects and then we have the seed fund is for bigger projects the seed fund is for bigger projects this is to help viable innovative first-mover businesses and utilities to get started on Stellar these are projects that we hope will still be around in the prize pool for that is five million lumens split between three to five projects and that seed fund will happen twice a year and so by splitting these funds i mean and so by splitting these funds I mean what we see right now in the scf is what we see right now in the scf is these two different kinds of entries larger projects as well as like hackathon type projects and they're both very valuable to the ecosystem both can generate a lot of excitement the problem is right now they both receive about the same amount of funding where a lab fund a hackathon project really it's worth doing it it's worth competing for
a much lower price and so you'd still be willing to participate whereas in the seed fund if you don't get enough money if you don't get enough funding it's really hard to keep that project alive and keep it going and so by splitting this up into two very specific and defined funds hopefully you'll know better which one your project fits into and then you receive the funding that's appropriate more appropriate for the kind of project that you have i will the kind of project that you have I will say that this necessarily means that we also have to introduce a brand new component really two components but maybe one's more of an update but we need to introduce the idea of panel of judges as well as an update to our of judges as well as an update to our voting mechanism so we have a voting mechanism right now and we technically have a panel of judges but right now it's the whole wide world it's the whole community and so let's say we have 20 entries that come in how do we narrow that down to come in how do we narrow that down to like a final entry say with 300 entries come in how do we narrow that down
to some sort of manageable list that a final voting round can happen where a reasonable amount of funds can be allocated and there's not a lot of voter fatigue with having to comb through 300 different entries the problem right now is that the community the same community technically will vote in both of those so you're voting once you're picking all the projects you're combing through lots of entries and then you kind of have to do a whole and then you kind of have to do a whole thing over again in the final round so you narrow down and then you have a final vote to allocate funds in this new scf 2.0 we're removing or really splitting that so there'll be a panel of judges which is a very select group of community members who have dedicated a lot of time and effort and energy into Stellar building on Stellar so they maybe have won spcs or scfs in the past maybe have won spcs or scfs in the past they might be part of the infrastructure grants or the enterprise fund people that are really core to the Stellar ecosystem as well as a few sdf
employees like myself colton zack anka and others and then those the role of the panel of judges will be to role of the panel of judges will be to filter through all of the entries that come in for either the seed of the lab come in for either the seed of the lab fund and narrow that down to a final list that they feel is of highest quality and then those finalists will make it into the community round voting which is this flaggable quadratic voting and with this we're really trying to add velocity or add sentiment to a community vote right now it's very one-sided where or at least it's very static where when you have a vote you can say i where when you have a vote you can say i like this project like this project and this project there's no intensity you can't say i really like this project you can't say I really like this project or i kind of like this project or even i really don't like this project all of those sentiments are quite important to ensuring that the actual amount of lumens the voting power allows the sentiment or that curve to most closely represent the actual community sentiment that's participating in that voting round and
we're hoping that through this flaggable quadratic voting that we can achieve that this is kind of more of the technical aspect of this talk and colton is actually he's the one who sold me on the idea of quadratic voting and I'm going to hand it over to him for a I'm going to hand it over to him for a little bit I'm going to bring up a screen here with a demo of quadratic voting and then just kind of let him explain where we stumbled upon quadratic voting how we've implemented ourselves and why we think it's worth trying yeah so we kind of came across quadratic voting when looking at how the sort of ethereum ecosystem handles funding in particular a project on ethereum called git coin they have this sort of funding mechanism called quadratic funding which is another flavor of sort of quadratic voting where basically they allow a group of people to make donations to a project you basically take this square root
of each project or each donation you like add them all together and then you square that and you kind of get a matching number for that poll of donations and so we kind of borrowed from that idea and took the sort of original iteration of quadratic funding which is ultimately quadratic voting and like tyler was saying this idea of quadratic voting allows you to specify intensity towards your preference of a boat so in a traditional voting system where it's just one person one boat you have this problem where when you're voting for multiple projects you can't express how positively or negatively you feel about that project and we thought you know what since we're doing this community boat we want experts in the community to be able to double down on projects they really like we want people who are avid users of a we want people who are avid users of a project to double down on projects they really like but we also want people to be able to but we also want people to be able to give super valid opinions about projects they really like so if they think something is over performing
then they can also downvote that project which i think tyler will that project which I think tyler will show in this demo here so i'll kind of show in this demo here so i'll kind of let you show how it works and it's much let you show how it works and it's much more intuitive once you kind of start clicking around and get a feel for how the voting mechanism works but we have a better explainer on the website and we also have some resources we can provide for anybody who wants to sort of hear it out or learn more about sort of hear it out or learn more about it yeah absolutely yep and i think it's worth mentioning yep and I think it's worth mentioning too like this is an experiment in a sense because i mean colin in a sense because I mean colin remind you every single time that like we're trying this i think it's like we're trying this I think it's gonna be fantastic we'll see that's the beauty of the scf is we get to iterate and make improvements and really see what works and what doesn't but to kind of go through a demo here but to kind of go through a demo here ultimately there's a prize pool right so you've got an amount of money that's being allocated by percentage vote so as votes are given for or against a project their percentage compared to other projects changes and that necessarily means the amount of prize money
that they're winning changes and this is something that we really want to highlight in the new voting design which by the way this is a demo this isn't actually what the voting site looks like but this is a good demo very but this is a good demo very clean and i hope it will help kind of allow and I hope it will help kind of allow you to play around with what you have in quadratic voting but as you have like let's say we really like this unbranded wooden soap project and we would like to give it some votes we would like to say i like some votes we would like to say I like this project if you give it a single vote you'll see right here by that by adding a single vote you're going to give it 27.69 and so that is going to increase this number by that 27 to get us to this number you've added 27.69 but that 2769 has to come from somewhere and it came from all these other projects 227 from here 30 bucks and two pennies from this project and like that's how you can kind of upvote download you can sort of take money from other projects and allocate it here but it's important
to understand that that's what's happening as you start to add votes to a project really you start with this number of credits and then as you vote those credits are burnt and the quadratic the scaling part of this happens is you start to upvote or downvote a particular project multiple times so if i click this again times so if I click this again it's going to be two votes but two times it's going to be two votes but two times two is four and so it's going to burn four credits so we voted twice but we've burned four credits so what that means is as you start to click on this project more we voted five times but five times five is 25 so we've burned 25 credits voting for this project five times if we start voting for other projects let's say i also really like this let's say I also really like this refined cotton shoes I'm a big cotton shoes fan myself we don't want this project to lose its 27.76 so we need to make sure we get 27.76 so we need to make sure we get that back up and so we're going to start to add a and so we're going to start to add a little bit of money back to this project so that this one comes up and so we've added 661 to this and 24. and so we've added 661 to this and 24. now we haven't necessarily like
it's still coming from the same pool it's just allocating from all these other ones taking money from those projects and putting it back in there but you can and putting it back in there but you can in real time start to see how your votes in real time start to see how your votes directly affect the outcome as it stands when you're voting and you have these credits that you can start to burn but instead of it just being static five and two it scales quadratically so that you can't overpower a vote in a particular direction and you allow that sentiment again to translate much more closely to the way that people would actually vote and actually share their sentiment if you were to poll a community another thing that i think is really important again this is static this is standard this is static this is standard quadratic voting but you might start to see a problem here and this is this starts to get into a little bit of this starts to get into a little bit of the issues that you find when you are giving away money in the public is manipulation and there's lots you can do when you're registering accounts like
you make sure you have accounts that are voting are using a system that's not free to create like in our system we're using sms verification so you have to have a phone that can receive sms messages to be able to vote in the past we've used key base to vote in the past we've used key base which has some ability to find who's voting to decide like to make a decision on whether or not you believe them to be a legitimate individual human being that doesn't have a lot of copies of themselves in the database that's voting but manipulation out in the public is quite difficult to do in the sbc right we just had a to do in the sbc right we just had a panel of judges that would pick the projects who we were pick the projects who we were sure were we knew who they were but when you open that up and you say but when you open that up and you say well let's open this up to a real community vote it's great until the word starts to get out and you start to see starts to get out and you start to see wow we can actually win a lot of money wow we can actually win a lot of money and the manipulation becomes much more worth it and if you don't increase the friction if you don't add a layer of friction then that manipulation will just start to scale and that's really what we've seen in the past particularly two scfs
four and five and really strongly in five you can go back and read our in five you can go back and read our post-mortem on scf5 where voter manipulation just kind of blew out of control and we knew this of blew out of control and we knew this was going to be the case because we were was going to be the case because we were using key base and it's free to create a key base account and so once to create a key base account and so once people start to get the word like i'll just create a free key base account start using that to vote and so you have to find ways to counteract that and so circling all the way back to quadratic voting it's not enough to just allow kind of sentiment changes you also need the ability to sort of flag things so if the ability to sort of flag things so if a particular project is way over performing or underperforming what you believe they should like let's say this project down here well let's say a refined granite chair just it's taking off we like this is they their website doesn't even work why is this project doing so well you might be tempted to use all of your you might be tempted to use all of your credits right 10 times 10 is 100 credits to burn and try and get them down from where you believe you know they
shouldn't get this much like they don't have anything why are they getting this much but the problem is by downvoting them 10 times you haven't really affected the vote at all you've just tried to counteract the bad acting that they that you believe that they're doing and so a better alternative is adding this idea of flaggable quadratic voting where rather than using all your credits to counteract a bad actor you just put a sentiment so i want it to you just put a sentiment so I want it to go up i feel like this is go up I feel like this is under performing like somebody's attacking this project and down voting it and they shouldn't and then I'm going to use 16 credits in and then I'm going to use 16 credits in this case to add a flag that basically just says hey moderators can you please take a look at this something's fishy and you could also go in the other direction too you say this is way over performing i think somebody needs to take a look at I think somebody needs to take a look at this the panel needs to take another look something's fishy with this but now you've only burned a few credits to make that flag and you still have in to make that flag and you still have in this case 83 left to just carry about your normal business of upvoting and down voting other projects as you please so rather than having to spend
all of your credits on counteracting bad actors you can just flag it the panel will take a look at it and you the panel will take a look at it and you don't have to worry about it anymore you can carry on with your vote i think can carry on with your vote I think that's really important in the iteration process of figuring out the best way to have an open community fund where you are giving away a relative relatively large amount of money and manipulation is going to happen it's just how do we counteract that and how do we allow the community to take part in fighting against that so that the fund is the easiest the lowest friction but also incredibly fair and well run and as time goes on we'll and well run and as time goes on we'll see how this works and we'll make changes as necessary yeah and we have a couple questions and we have a couple questions coming in about this so one of them is can you recast votes and the answer is yes until you like submit your final vote right so you'll be able to kind of vote right so you'll be able to kind of dynamically adjust your votes however you want throughout the system so say you upvoted one or two projects and you decide to change your mind
before you submit you'll be able to do that like it's not set in stone until yeah it's not click submit that's a really good question it's something i've kind of gone back and forth on could you like update votes so there's two kind of problems that i see with that one if you're able to I see with that one if you're able to like update votes essentially you would make a change and then that changes public to anybody else that's also voting and in the case of a bad actor you could and in the case of a bad actor you could create a bunch of fake accounts really skew up the vote and then kind of really skew up the vote and then kind of reactively go back and change all of that you know like remove all your votes or update your votes in a particular direction and now it's not all that helpful and so i don't think being able to update I don't think being able to update your votes is all that necessary i think would probably do more necessary I think would probably do more damage than it would do good the issue then obviously is well if i if I'm allocating my funds I if I'm allocating my funds but then the project changes significantly it gets a lot more votes than it did when i voted then maybe i than it did when I voted then maybe i should just wait to vote to the very last minute and i think we'll have to see that and I think we'll have to see that because i don't really want people to because I don't really want people to wait until the very last minute to vote but i don't think in general
but I don't think in general that's going to happen it's just something we'll have to evaluate and i feel like the way we've done it now is probably the best way to start and then we just the best way to start and then we just have to see what happens through the first like lab and seed funds and then if adjustments are needed either on updates or like the frequency that you can make updates or i don't know there's different I don't know there's different parameters you can add that might help with some of the pros and cons of either one of those options yeah i don't think retro like going back and changing a vote after you submit it will really ever be like a viable option but you'll be able to do it before you submit the other one are there any features built in to prevent flag spamming not i don't think not in the ui or not I don't think not in the ui or anything like that there's nothing to prevent it like ultimately if people flag spam that doesn't guarantee that a project will be disqualified or anything like that it's more of just like a hey you guys really need to take a look hey you guys really need to take a look at this so if there's one particular like say one project gets one flag response it probably won't get looked at but if it gets 20 won't get looked at but if it gets 20 flag responses then it'll probably end up getting looked at and if somebody is just flag spamming
and there's no obvious manipulation taking place and they just won't be disqualified or anything like that yeah and that's a it's a really good question and i think hopefully a good answer to that is that flags don't actually affect the prize allocation it's just a flag you have to spend credits to flag things so you can't flag every project you can only flag up to one less than half or i think up to one less than half or I think maybe one more than half of the projects when you're actually making a flag but flags don't count for a positive or a negative when it comes to the final prize allocation it's just like hey take a look at this one vote will count towards a this one vote will count towards a positive and so you can add more positivity if you're like well if this doesn't get improved i want to if this doesn't get improved I want to make sure that they get something like you could do that but at the end like you could do that but at the end of the day the flag doesn't really do anything as far as changing the vote like nobody else is going to see projects that have been flagged it's just a note to the panels to the jud the just a note to the panels to the jud the panel of judges for that round that something might be fishy and somebody needs to take a look at this
entry all right let me double check make sure i did not miss anything okay I think we're good on like the specifics of quadratic voting the other did we quadratic voting the other did we touch on why we think like linear distribution is not ideal and we did not call them would you like and we did not call them would you like to wax eloquently sure let's talk about linear distributions so one of the big pro you know and we so one of the big pro you know and we call it a problem but it's easy to say call it a problem but it's easy to say this in hindsight but one of the big problems we identified with the current model of scf is that the distribution of funds is really linear right like if you look at it on a graph right like if you look at it on a graph it looks like something like that but the big problem with that is that the complexity of any given project in a round can be very different so like a project that gets second place and one round could be like a full-on business and the project that gets second place and another round could be like a hackathon project and if you have this linear distribution of funds that means those two projects got the same amount of money
just based on which round they submitted this isn't ideal obviously because those projects are of varying quality they need different amounts of money to function properly they need different amounts of money to scale up properly so we had a the reason we consider quadratic voting is that the community can kind of decide okay look this project is it needs way more money than the project next to it in the competition and so we can allocate our votes proportionately and get them more money in the current voting system you just literally can't do that so we wanted it to be more dynamic somebody just asked another question sorry that distracted me anyway so we wanted the allocation of funds to be more dynamic to be able to fit the needs of the to be able to fit the needs of the projects who were submitted and allow the community to fit those needs with their vote as well yeah yep absolutely and i think like a yeah yep absolutely and I think like a linear when you don't have a quadratic system or you don't have a panel of judges you have to be really careful with how you allow votes to be allocated because it would be really easy for
the wrong project to receive a ridiculous amount of money through manipulation and so you kind of counteract some of the manipulation by not allowing a project to vote for themselves three times or only and so you enforce like okay and or only and so you enforce like okay and in the final round for example right now you have to vote for three projects you can't just vote for yourself and that's really important because if there is a project that's kind of running away with the vote they still have to allocate two of their percentages they're 33 66 70 percent of their vote has to go to 66 70 percent of their vote has to go to other projects but that necessarily means that the projection of votes or the distribution of votes is going to be linear because you don't have a lot of influence over a really strong opinion in one way or another and so once you have both a panel of judges that ensures the finalists list is always high quality you have quadratic voting which allows individuals to very strongly point in the direction that they want but also if you vote exclusively on one project you only have
10 votes whereas if you spread it out you have up whereas if you spread it out you have up to like 100 votes like you can really spread that out your influence out over a large range of projects if you want to and so the of projects if you want to and so the ability to manipulate even without the other features that we have built in through sms messaging and kind of the improvement that is over key base that's already better and so once you add on top of it the sms verification hopefully again the theory is that we'll have a much more dynamic voting mechan mechanism that will better reflect the actual entries in a particular round rather than just kind of always being linear yeah for sure and like even you know if yeah for sure and like even you know if it even if it ends up being a problem it even if it ends up being a problem where like we have first place always wait out performing or something like that you can always tweet quadratic voting like for example you can remove one of the you can reduce the credits from 100 to 99 and all of a sudden in order to vote
that requires you to distribute your tokens across i think three projects or across I think three projects or something like that to use all of them so you can make small tweets like that and it can have you know big effects so and it can have you know big effects so if there comes a time where it feels like we need to make changes like that we can easily do so one of the projects that came up was or not projects questions was will we be able to engage judges ahead of time to address any concerns they may have regarding technical feasibility or other issues yeah fantastic question absolutely you will the panel of judges is probably going to be about 10 individuals per round and there'll be a lot of discussion back and forth on the projects that they feel the panel feels our potential for finalists and there's still some like the panels like we're going to have to figure it out how the judging actually works like if you only have to go through 20 projects 30 projects that's pretty that's relatively easy to do and to give a bit more hands-on experience for every single entry whereas if you have 500 which i think our last spc had something
which I think our last spc had something like 500 entries not everybody's going to be able to be reached out to and so there'll be a little bit of back and so there'll be a little bit of back and forth and you need to make sure that and forth and you need to make sure that your entry is really strong and really solid and you don't feel like there should be a whole lot of back and forth because what you've put out there is really good you need to put your best foot forward and really make an impression and make it a proven and not assume that and make it a proven and not assume that if i put something out there that's kind if I put something out there that's kind of half-hearted that it still has a chance because someone will reach out to me that may or someone will reach out to me that may or may not be the case so i would always encourage entrants to so I would always encourage entrants to really put maximum effort that they feel is worth it for that they feel is worth it for them into their entry and then as the panelists go through the entries hopefully you get someone to kind of adopt your project and start reaching out and kind of provide some of that relationship and that feedback and if not the community is always available like there's a ton of people out there that are never going to be on a there that are never going to be on a panel but that can still provide feedback for your project and help you improve it so that when it does help you improve it so that when it does come time for the next lab fund or a seed fund your project's even stronger
but it will be important to kind of serve yourself first in this competition first in this competition particularly as we start we continue to grow and have more entries to not assume too much of our panelists but to make it as easy of our panelists but to make it as easy as possible for them to recognize that your project is insane that it's amazing and it deserves a little bit of a longer look in the a little bit of a longer look in the same way that you would make a pitch to same way that you would make a pitch to any other fund any other funding opportunity really make that strong sort of elevator pitch if you will yeah and somebody asks if the quadratic voting demo is on github or if it'll be on github later it might be i can make sure we put it might be I can make sure we put that up for sure yeah it would be good for other people to look through that you can obviously play around with it at fqv.versal.app but i'll make sure i have the code but i'll make sure I have the code available for review and for review and tweaking sweet and then somebody said if a project is very ambitious
its product has to be way more advanced than others because people can sell the idea that they need way more funds when this is not true yeah of course i mean this is not true yeah of course I mean that's kind of the nature of like a competition right you have to sell people on your vision and what you're building on your vision and what you're building anyway and if somebody does a better job of selling the fact that they might need more funding or something like that and the community supports it and wants to get behind it that's you know more power to those people right like they've done a good job of pitching the community and it can also be the case that a and it can also be the case that a project very obviously needs way more funding but they do a way needs way more funding but they do a way worse job of pitching their idea to the community and they won't receive as much funding that's kind of like an inherent feature of competitions rather than like some problem that you can kind of easily solve outside of having you know one entity pick where money should go yeah i think it's worth speaking to that yeah I think it's worth speaking to that a little bit particularly as somebody myself who competed in both the spc and the scf it's not crazy easy and the scf it's not crazy easy it isn't easy to win these competitions
but if you treat it serious and you treat it if you treat it serious and you treat it for the fun that it is and really put your heart and soul not just into the code and into your idea and kind of i don't know attaching yourself I don't know attaching yourself personally to your project but kind of saying that this is a community effort i want to make community effort I want to make something that's valuable to other people that necessarily like if that's a priority of yours to make something that other people care about necessarily that means you're going to promote it you're going to talk about it because you want people to use it you want it to improve their lives if you're just making something that's fun and you don't really care if people interact with it or benefit from it again that might be a really good lab fund entry but you're still going to need to market you're still going to need to get people's eyeballs on it and some buzz around it and that can be a some buzz around it and that can be a little bit challenging i think as developers challenging I think as developers to like think about how do i promote to like think about how do I promote this thing i just want to code it and i this thing I just want to code it and i understand that challenge but it also gives you that opportunity to kind of get a leg up on other developers or entrants that aren't willing to do that and
like we want projects to win not just because they did a good job but because other people are going to use the project that they're building and see the value and get it if you and see the value and get it if you build something amazing but nobody knows about it that's kind of sad that's unfortunate and i'd like that's unfortunate and i'd like to see amazing projects get visibility and i want to help with get visibility and I want to help with that as well as you taking that effort and putting it out there but it's both of us the it's both of us the actual fund itself putting facetime on to the projects that are highest quality and putting the most effort in as well as you really selling that and saying that i've built something and it's amazing and here's why doing blog posts and putting a little bit of good care into the design the actual ui and ux thinking through what would it be like to judge this project and how can i improve that making sure that they're a good demo username and password available if your project has a login barrier if your project has a login barrier like simple things like that a video explainer showcasing your team putting your face on a camera like those things can really go a long way
and that's not it's not like the scf's the only fund that's like that anywhere you try and get funding anywhere that it's a competition that's going to be true that those who put the most effort into communicating and selling their project they're going to do the best particularly if they've spent a lot of time actually making their project good right like you don't want to promote something that really isn't all that great but if you have both of those that great but if you have both of those things together like maybe skip a round of lab fund and like maybe skip a round of lab fund and really dive into having both of those pieces a really good project and really good marketing and really good blog posts and combining both of those things together to really give yourself the best chance at succeeding in the lab or in the seed fund yeah and it is worth noting like i think yeah and it is worth noting like I think going forward in different rounds of seo if we're going to do a really we're going to try going to do a really we're going to try to do a really good job of like highlighting what made projects successful in any given round that way like everybody can kind of learn from each other and there's not this like black hole of you trying to figure out
you know what do i need to do to you know what do I need to do to perform well in scf i think we're going to try to do in scf I think we're going to try to do a way better job of getting that information out there so everybody can kind of learn from each other and it makes the competition you know better for everybody yeah absolutely yep some blog posts on how to place well in the scf you know what are judges looking for like again adding the relationship piece and putting a little bit more focus on that i think treating the scf I think treating the scf like it's a product like it's a thing rather than kind of just a something that's also going on somewhere out there you know good luck as it's kind of been a little bit in as it's kind of been a little bit in the past trying to focus a little bit more on this is really important to the ecosystem and building up the resources and the marketing and the communication relationship aspect of the seller community fund so that it just provides that really strong opportunity to get funding and recognition for the work that you're doing instead and really incentivize you to want to build on seller and to give you the right route to succeed
whether that's through funding relationships building you know going from the lab fund to the seed fund from something fun to a business like there's a lot of different tracks that individuals can take but really making like highlighting those and helping people along and including the community in that so it's not just me and colton trying to do it's not just me and colton trying to do everything but that the community knows where they can get involved and where the gaps are that need to be filled so that this thing can really take on a much stronger community sense and finding where that is and finding where that is where that's needed and where it can best fit as the fund again continues to mature as it has been sweet I think we're caught up on questions so we can move on in the presentation all right super duper not too much further to go appreciate everyone for the fantastic questions these the for the fantastic questions these are obviously two very important components that really highlight the difference between what we have right now and what we're launching today so kind of in conclusion two key takeaways
the sdf funds projects and so if you've got a contact you know clients or yourself who's looking either maybe isn't a good fit for the infrastructure again or the enterprise fund which we also have but are strictly sdf managed refer them to the scf you know point people towards us get yourself involved whether as a judge or as a participant with a split between the lab and the seed funds we have a strong funding avenue for more mature and serious entrepreneurs while still providing a profitable playground for new and curious developers so we've really got that platform that's going to support a much wider ecosystem in a much more effective way so we fund projects but you can also help and i cannot emphasize this help and I cannot emphasize this enough like we get you know this is a Stellar fund we get that it's a fund but let's really take some time thinking about the community aspect of this to get involved join the seller dot community fund
key base group i would highly encourage that if I would highly encourage that if this is something that's interesting to you whether the design of the fund itself the participation as a voter or your got the participation as a voter or your got questions about the entry how to enter or you know anything related this is kind of where the community is going to talk about this other community fund so make sure you jump into Stellar.community fund and then also make sure you participate in community discussion whether that's on key base or in different discussion groups as well as the voting phases so when voting comes out participate get involved you know spend those credits put them where you think they should go and then also help to share the story of and then also help to share the story of solid entries as well as referring those potential participants so as you have social media accounts and you want to get the word out of projects you want to get the word out of projects that you care about that you i mean if that you care about that you I mean if you've put credits toward them share their story like get them out there so that they can not just receive funding from the sdf but they can actually
get involvement from the greater community maybe they come back and participate in another lab fund with new improvements and you're starting to invest and put energy towards people and not just projects and really want to see individual developers and contributors creators succeed whether that's in a particular project or across multiple entries starting to invest not just in projects but people is something that i'd really like to see coming out of this update so that's the this update so that's the close there's no context behind that picture you get no context this is inside joke now this is yeah thanks for watching before no before we wrap it up before no before we wrap it up we do need to share the announcement blog post and we need to show the site that's correct so you're ahead of yourself sir I'm gonna share the announcement blog post right now in the chat so if people want to head over and read
that it's basically like a nice shareable summary of everything we just said fantastic will you be able to pull up the site nice tada amazing so this is the all new and how convenient somebody just asked what the dates are for the first round so we can go over that fantastic question but the new site is over at communityfun.Stellar.org a lot of work has gone into the site over lot of work has gone into the site over the past i don't even know how long it's been I don't even know how long it's been huge collapse she she's a web flow wizard now designed this built this whole site basically on our own unbelievable incredible huge props to anka for this incredible site but yes the Stellar community fund has a marketing page and it's not just here's the rules it actually outlines what it is the two different funds we've got we got an art we we've got we got an art we got a marketing video what we're big leagues colton yeah we're big leagues colton yeah i know
I know but anyways the website has a breakdown of both the funds it has you know a couple step-by-steps it's got some featured projects it's got some cool illustrations of little astronauts which are amazing but each tab on there so the seed fund tab and the lab fund tab i believe have not the lab fund tab I believe have not only prize pools but the dates on when they start and a countdown timer which one are we on right now this is the lab fund okay so the lab fund actually i don't know so the lab fund actually I don't know what the today's date is august 28th which technically the lab and the seed fund are open the lab and the seed fund are open for submissions right now which i don't know if i would submit today don't know if I would submit today unless you've just been sitting on an entry but they're officially both open right now so you are welcome to begin submitting projects to these brand new lab and seed funds so the lab fund obviously will close first it's the shorter fund opens up today submissions will close
on september 21st so according to our countdown timer that gives you about 23 days to submit to our very first lab fund the community discussion will then I'm sorry the panel discussion will begin then on september 21st and go through october 12th then october 26th after the community discussion where the community will kind of go through the entries and ask any follow-up questions and have an opportunity to engage in the entries the community voting will begin that'll go on for a week as normal begin that'll go on for a week as normal on that new flaggable quadratic voting and it all happens right here so rather than there being galactic talk and the voting page it's all integrated straight into start I'm sorry communityfun.stiller.org all integrator right here you can go and log in if you are an entrant log in with log in if you are an entrant log in with your phone number and that allows you to enter your project if you're a panel judge which there's not too many of you but if you are a panel judge panel judges
will log in with their key base account that's how we differentiate between entrants and panelists and then you can go through your projects either to enter or to begin the selection so this is all very obviously brand new experimental in a sense but we're very excited we put a lot of time and effort excited we put a lot of time and effort into this but as you have questions or feedback you can reach out on that Stellar community fund key base channel or go to this connect page where we've got a form down the bottom where you can also reach out as you have issues bug reports other questions if you've got partnership opportunities anything like that you can reach out through that form and then just to cover really quick on the seed fund timing you can check it out yourself but submissions are open now and those will actually go all the way through january 18 2021. this is because seed fund projects are big projects these are not quick hey i've got an idea this weekend these are big projects we want to see businesses coming out of this that will
last a year so we're putting lots of time available for submitting your idea to the seed fund and then panels will begin selecting those january 18th that'll go on through till march 15th where the community discussion will begin that'll go through april 26th and then finally on may 10th the community voting will end the community voting for this is actually two weeks but then may 10th the first seed fund will close out if you have other questions about the rest of the dates those are also in another community post that we're putting out talking a little bit more about the technical details behind the Stellar community fund yeah and if you go through some yeah and if you go through some of the like submission requirements and it's still not clear please reach out to tyler or me or anybody else to kind of discuss where your project might fit whether in the seed fund or the lab fund
and we can definitely have that discussion and then you know see which part of those sort of requirements and descriptions were confusing because it's extremely important that we clearly communicate the separation between the two yep so we've done quite a bit of writing yep so we've done quite a bit of writing both on those blog posts to explain the new sef as well as on these kind of these couple how-to articles as well as the guidelines rules the phases in the projects or in the rounds as well as just a look at previous winners but as you go through that content if there are things you feel like we could do better i mean again this is a community effort I mean again this is a community effort not just in the fund itself but in the not just in the fund itself but in the actual design of the community fund so we're would love feedback and improvement ideas or are the articles that you would find helpful you can always submit those through that form or just in the key based group to form or just in the key based group to make suggestions sweet and i think we've been going for a sweet and I think we've been going for a long time so we can wrap this thing up yeah i mean we can wrap this thing up yeah I mean it's I'm super excited I'm i mean if you it's I'm super excited I'm I mean if you can't tell I'm i've we've spent so much time on this as someone who used to participate
like this is the fund i would have like this is the fund I would have wanted so i I'm so happy and excited to have so I I'm so happy and excited to have this live can't wait to see what people build watching to see how it continues to mature and iterate i would love to see the and iterate I would love to see the community get more wrapped up in the community fund and engaged and have a bit of ownership around what it is and how it operates so excited to be at a spot where we so excited to be at a spot where we can finally launch this new thing and really be starting continuing but starting from a strong place to continue our community fund efforts in aligning with the mandate that we have for this particular allocation of lumens sweet thanks everybody yep thanks guys as you have questions again reach out otherwise it's been a lot of fun explaining it walking through it and i can't wait to see what you build and I can't wait to see what you build and hopefully won't be too long before we have another one of these before we have another one of these live hangout shows maybe even next week Stellar podcast
live next week there's the plug